`README.md`

# About this project

This repository contains a tidy data set derived from raw data. 

The data come from processed accelerometer and gyroscope signals generated by smartphones worn by subjects during activities.

Only features relating to mean and standard deviation values were retained from the raw data sets and included in the tidy data set. 

Every feature value in the tidy data set is the calculated mean of the original feature data for each subject/activity combination.

---

# Tidy data set

`tidy_set.csv` is the tidy data set produced by the script `run_analysis.R`

---

# CodeBook

`CodeBook.md` describes the tidy data set, with descriptions of the variables, data, and transformations which were done to clean up the data and create the tidy data set.

---

# Script

`run_analysis.R` performs the analysis and generates the tidy data set. No other scripts are required.

The script uses the `tidyverse` library, which includes functions for selecting, filtering, mutating and summarizing data.

The script assumes that the raw data files have been downloaded and unzipped to the directory in `project_path`.

---

# Analysis method

These are the steps used to produce the tidy data set, as coded in the `run_analysis.R` script.

* Load the tidyverse library
* Make a path to the main project directory
* Make new feature labels

* Read in the test set and apply feature labels
* Read in the activities and subjects, and bind them to the test set
* Narrow the test set

* Read in the train set and apply feature labels
* Read in the activities and subjects, and bind them to the train set
* Narrow the train set

* Merge the test and train sets
* Convert the digits in the activity column into the correct words
* Calculate and store the average of each feature for each activity and each subject
* Write the tidy data set to disk

---

# Acknowledgements

Garrett Grolemund and Hadley Wickham for their book _R for Data Science_ at http://r4ds.had.co.nz/

Artem Klevtsov on StackOverflow for his post on `summarise_each()` at http://stackoverflow.com/questions/21644848/summarizing-multiple-columns-with-dplyr

David Hood for his post on this assignment at https://thoughtfulbloke.wordpress.com/2015/09/09/getting-and-cleaning-the-assignment/









